---
title: In-Class 1
permalink: /in_class/1
---

# In-Class 1

**Outline**
* Course Intro
* Mentor Intros
* Mentee Intros
* Course Structure/Workflow

**Slides:** [Class 1 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11J8DJqR3y-Yk9GGE2i89JfRHyGTqpnbxy_ZU5KvAa-4/edit?usp=sharing)


## Course Intro

CoderGirl is a learning community, which is a group of people who share common academic goals and attitudes, who meet semi-regularly to collaborate on classwork.

1. Focus is on learning, not teaching. Mentors are here to guide and foster your learning.
2. Your wiliness as a mentee to collaborate and support group is necessary for success.
3. You as a mentee should plan for 6-10 hours of self-learning outside of class.


## Course Structure/Workflow

Curriculum is on this website.


The **Curriculum** is made up of *Lessons*

A **Lesson** is a group of assignments that relate to each other.

Lessons do NOT correspond to weeks. You are not expected to complete one lesson per week. All the mentors ask is that you spend 6-10 hours a week on the content OUTSIDE of class time.

**Assignments** are individual parts of the curriculum that are designed to meet a particular set of learning objectives.


_Other tools that will support your learning:_

**Slack** is a message application. Since most of the learning will occur outside of class, Slack should be used to reach out for help when working on assignments. Both mentors and other classmates can respond and answer your questions. It's also a space to share things you have learned or cool articles that you have found :)

**Trello** is used to plan out your next pieces of work. Every assignment will have a link to your Trello Board where you should go to enter your TODO chunks of the assignment. We use this so you have a better sense of what _exactly_ you need to complete to continue your learning.

**Canvas** is the tool we use to record completion of assignments. Each assignment will have a link to the canvas assignment where you should indicate you have completed the course work. You will either submit a random piece of text or sometimes you will submit a link to a completed project.
